Document Twitter Ads Transparency Center (#72)
ambanum/disinfo.quaidorsay.fr: _pages/en/twitter-ads-transparency-center-assessment.md

> Will the issue ads policy cover other issues in the future? We are continually looking into these issues based on **the U.S. political climate**.

> Does the policy apply to non-federal elections? Yes, all promoted political content will be considered an issue ad with a carveout for **federal political content** that is subject to a more stringent certification process.

The entire information regarding the list of topics that Twitter considers “legislative issues of national importance” subject to the issue advertising policy is:

> Examples of legislative issues of national importance include but are not limited to: climate change, healthcare, immigration, national security, taxes. ([Source](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/global-political-content.html)).

### Certification constraints are not clear outside the USA

> Certification requirements are unclear outside the USA. The help page for the certification process https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/how-to-get-certified.html has the title “How to get certified as a political campaigning advertiser”, suggesting that its content applies worldwide. However, its source code (including the title displayed in the browser tab) contains many references to the title “How to get certified as a political campaigning advertiser is the U.S.”.

Reviewer: “Its source code”? I am not sure requirements can be expected to be looked for in source code :wink: How does that impact me as a reader?

Author: Maybe it's not worth discussing about that:

```
<meta property="og:title" content="How to get certified as a political campaigning advertiser in the U.S."/>
<meta property="og:description" content="How to get certified as a political campaigning advertiser in the U.S."/>
```

but this:
```
<title>How to get certified as a political campaigning advertiser in the U.S.</title>
```
impacts the reader (see [the title of the page](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/how-to-get-certified.html
) on your browser tab)

Reviewer: Ok. This is more of a fun fact than actually problematic. We can give the `<title>` as an anecdote, the actual demonstration you give after of the US-centric phrasings is clearer.

Reviewer: Let's remove mentions of “source code” in any case.

Author: Ok

However, these pages state that the obligation only holds for ads related to the European elections and not to national elections and issue advertising:

> Answers below apply to Australia, EU Parliamentary elections, India, and the United States. ([Source](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/political-campaigning-advertising-policy-FAQs.html))
>
> Political campaigning ads for EU Parliamentary Elections ONLY must meet additional eligibility requirements and apply for certification. ([Source](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/eu-political-content.html))

### No comprehensive access to political ads

As of June 17<sup>th</sup>, 2019, the [Ads Transparency Center](https://ads.twitter.com/transparency) consists of:

- a search engine on Twitter's ads;
- the list of certified advertisers for political campaigning, for the USA, the European Union, Australia and India;
- the list of certified issue advertisers for US issue advertising.

> According to the [Ads Transparency Center FAQs](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/ads-transparency-center-faqs.html), “only ads from certified accounts per the Political Content Ads Policy are displayed in the ATC”. However, the Ads Transparency Center search bar gives access to advertiser timelines with no links to politics, such as a [windshield dealer](https://ads.twitter.com/transparency/Carglass_France). The search bar does not give a mean to access the entire list of advertisers: this would require to search for all possible strings of characters.

Reviewer: Very interesting. Can we have another example beyond the windshield dealer? This would illustrate the diversity of unqualified “political content”.

Author: Ok

### Only a subset of political ads is shown

Twitter offers a wide range of advertising formats: “Promoted tweets” and “Promoted-only tweets”, “Promoted Accounts”, “Promoted Trends”, “Twitter Promote Mode”, “In-stream Videos”, “Conversational Ads”, “First View”, “Spotlight”, custom emojis… While political campaigning ads [may only](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/political-campaigning-advertising-policy-FAQs.html) be promoted via the use of Promoted Tweets and In-Stream Video Ads, the issue advertising policy does not impose such a restriction. Yet currently, [only Promoted Tweets](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/ads-transparency-center-faqs.html) appear in the Ads Transparency Center.

“In-Stream Video” political ads are thus not referenced in the Transparency Center. We have not been able to assess what proportion of all political ads this represents, in terms of numbers or spending.

### Data cannot be downloaded

All the information provided by the Ads Transparency Center is tied to the interactive user interface. It cannot be downloaded as a file to be reused.

> This means that researchers that want to conduct quantitative studies on Twitter ads first have to reverse engineer the user interface of the Ads Transparency Center. This is time consuming, requires advanced computer skills and makes them risk violating Twitter terms.

Reviewer: Can we have a look at the ToS and be more affirmative if this goes against the ToS?

Author: In the [Developer Agreement](https://developer.twitter.com/en/developer-terms/agreement):

> You will not or attempt to (and will not allow others to) 1) **reverse engineer**, decompile, disassemble or translate the Twitter API, or otherwise attempt to derive source code, trade secrets or know-how in or underlying any Twitter API or any portion thereof;

Since you have to extract the app bearer token from the JS bundle prior to requesting yourself guest tokens, this can certainly be considered as reverse engineering. However the terms mention specifically the API and not the front-end components. WDYT?

Fun fact: you can use these "guest tokens" not only on the ads API, but also on the endpoints `statuses/lookup` and `users/lookup` of the Twitter API. (Doing so would certainly violate "You will not attempt to exceed or circumvent limitations on access, calls and use of the Twitter API")

Reviewer: Thanks for the additional research!

```suggestion
This means that researchers that want to conduct quantitative studies on Twitter ads first have to reverse engineer the user interface of the Ads Transparency Center. This is time consuming, requires advanced programming skills and entails potential violations of Twitter’s [Developer Agreement](https://developer.twitter.com/en/developer-terms/agreement) on reverse engineering.
```

Author: Ok

From the [Ads Transparency Center FAQs](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/ads-transparency-center-faqs.html), it becomes clear that data integrity is not guaranteed in any way since both the advertiser and Twitter may decide to halt the exposure in the Ads Transparency Center:

> Country withheld ads will only appear in countries where the content is allowed.

> If an advertiser deletes a Promoted Tweet or their Twitter @username, their tweets will no longer show in the ATC.

> If an ad is reported and taken down from Twitter, it will be tombstoned in ATC within approximately 24 hours. If the account was suspended, tweets will not be shown in the ATC. The same applies to deleted users and tweets.

> If the @username no longer exists, all associated ads will no longer appear in the ATC.

In case of suspended content, Twitter [states](https://ads.twitter.com/transparency) that the reason for suspension is made public:

> When you search for an advertiser, you’ll be able to see all Promoted Tweets that are currently running on Twitter, including Promoted-only Tweets, or if a Promoted Tweet was suspended and why.

#### Unexplained data removal

> We observed that among the 505 tweets classified as political advertising about the EU parliamentary election available on the Ads Transparency Center on June 11<sup>th</sup> 2019, 92 [were removed](https://github.com/ambanum/political-ads-scraper/blob/master/twitter_fetch/scripts/consistency.ipynb) by June 12<sup>th</sup> 2019. However, these tweets were still [shown on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Der_BDI/status/1135579175899865088) as of June 19<sup>th</sup>.

Reviewer: Brilliant.

Can we investigate the reason why these were removed? Could it be any of the reasons listed in the ToS? I feel like what you mean by “these tweets were still on Twitter” is “so it's not even like Twitter applied its own rules on content removal”, but if that's the case it would be worth making it explicit.

Author: Ok

> We observed that among the 505 tweets classified as political advertising about the EU parliamentary election available on the Ads Transparency Center on June 11<sup>th</sup> 2019, 92 [were removed](https://github.com/ambanum/political-ads-scraper/blob/master/twitter_fetch/scripts/consistency.ipynb) by June 12<sup>th</sup> 2019. However, these tweets were still [shown on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Der_BDI/status/1135579175899865088) as of June 19<sup>th</sup>.

Reviewer: It's currently unclear if there was no deletion prior to June 12 or if we just don't know. Mention when we started monitoring.

Author: Ok

> We observed that among the 505 tweets classified as political advertising about the EU parliamentary election available on the Ads Transparency Center on June 11<sup>th</sup> 2019, 92 [were removed](https://github.com/ambanum/political-ads-scraper/blob/master/twitter_fetch/scripts/consistency.ipynb) by June 12<sup>th</sup> 2019. However, these tweets were still [shown on Twitter](https://twitter.com/Der_BDI/status/1135579175899865088) as of June 19<sup>th</sup>.

Reviewer: Can we show a sample of tweets that were removed yet are clearly political and could have impacted the campaign?

Author: I made a selection. Maybe, including an [automated translation](https://www.deepl.com/fr/translator) could be usefull for our audience, what do you think?

Reviewer: Ok.

Author: Do you mean the translation would be useful?
 Like that?

> Zurück in die Zukunft? @peteraltmeier meint: "Die vom #EuGh geforderte Erfassung der Arbeitszeit passt eher in die 80er Jahre des vergangenen Jahrhunderts und bedeutet für Firmen und #Arbeitnehmer zusätzliche Bürokratie!" #TDI19#WhichEurope https://t.co/vv8t7ZIq4d ([original tweet](https://twitter.com/Der_BDI/status/1135846176903876608), [translation](https://www.deepl.com/fr/translator): *“Back to the future? @peteraltmeier means: The collection of the working time demanded by the #EuGh fits rather into the 80's of the past century and means for companies and employees additional bureaucracy!"”*)

Reviewer: Yes, this could be useful  :)

> We observed another removal of two tweets between June 14<sup>th</sup> and June 15<sup>th</sup>.

Reviewer: Can we show these tweets?

Author: What do you mean? All 92 of them?

If you mean embedding them in the page, @Ndpnt would have more clues.

Author: Ok

Twitter offers a wide range of advertising formats: “Promoted tweets” and “Promoted-only tweets”, “Promoted Accounts”, “Promoted Trends”, “Twitter Promote Mode”, “In-stream Videos”, “Conversational Ads”, “First View”, “Spotlight”, custom emojis… While political campaigning ads [may only](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/restricted-content-policies/political-content/political-campaigning-advertising-policy-FAQs.html) be promoted via the use of Promoted Tweets and In-Stream Video Ads, the issue advertising policy does not impose such a restriction. Yet currently, [only Promoted Tweets](https://business.twitter.com/en/help/ads-policies/ads-transparency-center-faqs.html) appear in the Ads Transparency Center.

> “In-Stream Video” political ads are thus not referenced in the Transparency Center. We have not been able to assess what proportion of all political ads this represents, in terms of numbers or spending.

Author: For issue ads (which are also political ads), other formats are not referenced)

Author: I mean it's not only about In-Stream video but a lot of other formats, for issue ads.

Reviewer: Ok can you improve the sentence to make that clear?  :)
